Extract code from yagna-service-erigon, add docs & examples (#1)
golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager: README.md

# yapapi-service-manager

Helper tool for management of [Golem](https://handbook.golem.network/)-based services.

## yapapi-service-manager vs yapapi

> The official Golem python requestor development library is [yapapi](https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official Golem python requestor agent development library is [yapapi](https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi).
```

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

`yayapi` is used internally in `yapapi-service-manager`, so there's exactly nothing this library can do that is not available in pure `yapapi`.

`yapapi-service-manager` provides a higher-level services API than `yapapi`. Main features:

* create/destroy services on demand

> * persistent wrapper objects that are created before agreement is signed & stay after it was terminated

Reviewer: This line explains nothing to me, but raises level of confusion. I understand these "objects" are important regarding the way how yapapi works - is it kind of abstraction we gain from service-manager that "raw" yapapi does not have?

Reviewer: Oh, this might be "service_manager.ServiceWrapper" which is introduced in the below code example...
If this is the same I believe using "service wrapper" term is justified ;)

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

> * most of the interface is `sync` (although this is still an `async` library that will not work when called in non-async context)

Reviewer: Rephrase:
```suggestion
* although this is still an `async` library most of the interface is synchronous (that still has to be called in async context)
```

Reviewer 2: I'd go with something like:
```
* fire-and-forget methods with synchronous interface (although...)
```

These methods are 'synchronous' only formally (they don't have `async` keyword). But they're not synchronous in the more general sense -- they don't block until the operation completes.

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

> On the other hand, if you need either one of

Reviewer: I suggest to be straight: "This library might not be the best choise if...
[- points]
use the `yapapi` instead."

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

* batch API (TODO: yayapi docs url)
* efficient way of spawning multiple services in clusters (TODO: yayapi docs url)
* stable backward-compatible API & support

than you should use `yapapi`.

Note: this library changes the way services are *managed*, but the way they are *defined* is exactly the same as in `yapapi`.

More general, this library should be considered a temporary stage in requestor API development.
In the long term, `yapapi-service-manager` will either be merged into `yapapi` (with possible serious API changes) or abandoned.

## Examples

1. Simple service that just prints provider time few times. This is pretty useless, just demonstrates the base usage.

```
$ python3 examples/clock.py
```

2. "Standard" interactive python console, but running on a provider machine.
   

```
$ python3 examples/python-shell.py
```

3.  More complex usage: [Erigon](https://github.com/golemfactory/yagna-service-erigon). Features:

* custom runtime (TODO: runtime docs url)
* `yapapi-service-manager` integrated with [Quart](https://pgjones.gitlab.io/quart/) http server
    

> ## API reference

Reviewer 2: This is a quickstart guide rather than an API reference.

Author: I don't understand why.

Is this about the form? Or are there some pieces of information that should be included in the `API reference` and are missing in this section?

(having said that, I'll change it because you're the naming guy ;p)

Reviewer 2: "API reference" is a list of methods/functions/classes included in the API with descriptions. There's nothing wrong with this section, it just shouldn't be called "API reference".

> ```

Reviewer 2: Specifying the language will enable syntax highlighting on GitHub.
```suggestion
```python
```

#   Initialize the ServiceManager. You should never have more than one active ServiceManager.
service_manager = ServiceManager(
    # Dictionary with yapapi.Executor config (TODO: link yayapi executor config docs)
    executor_cfg,  
    
    # Handler function executed when yapapi.Executor raises an exception

>     # Default handler just stops the current event loop

Reviewer: In my understanding the handler is a function (or Callable) that will be executed on occurrence of an event.
Please rephrase: ~"Exception hadler. Default handler will just stop the current event loop".

Also the "even loop" just accidentally appeared - so maybe we should link it to some yapapi docs? 🤔

Author: I meant the `python event loop`, the thing that keeps async code running : )

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

Author: This comment has two lines, I think that including the previous one it is OK.

    golem_exception_handler=service_manager.stop_on_golem_exception,
    
    log_file='log.log',
)

> #   Request service creation. From yapapi POV, this creates a single-instance cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#   Request service creation. Regarding the `yapapi`, this creates a single-instance cluster.
```

also the comment makes me think why it's the "single-instance cluster" - I opt to use simpler terms ~"instance of the service"

Reviewer 2: That's not a good rephrase. Maybe use "In terms of `yapapi`..."

A "single-instance cluster" is a cluster consisting of a single instance. Maybe this needs to be stated like this if it wasn't clear to you.

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

#   (TODO: link to yapapi docs)
service_wrapper = service_manager.create_service(
    # Service implementation, class inheriting from yapapi.services.Service
    service_cls,
    
    # Arguments that will be passed to the runtime start.

>     # This currenly makes sense only for self-contained runtimes --> Erigon example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # This currenly makes sense only for custom runtimes --> Erigon example
```

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

    start_args=[],

    # Class inheriting from service_manager.ServiceWrapper, type of the object
    # returned by this function. Sample usage --> Erigon example
    service_wrapper_cls=service_manager.ServiceWrapper,
)

> service_wrapper.stop()   # Stop the service. This terminates the agreement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service_wrapper.stop()   # Stops the service. This terminates the agreement.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm totally for using imperative mood in code comments.

service_wrapper.started  # True -> we've signed an agreement -> service starts (or started)
service_wrapper.stopped  # True -> something stopped our service_wrapper -> it's not running

> service_wrapper.service  # Instance of service_cls

Reviewer: So we're referring here:
- the service
- the service-wrapper
- instance of the service_cls
I'm afraid at least 2 of them might be the same thing, at might have nothing to do with the service running on the provider... If this is better explain in the yapapi doc we should provide a link at the begging of the README with the assertion the reader would read it first.

Reviewer: `"service starts (or started)"` - hmm a little confusing, did you mean that "service has started" - as an result of the agreement ~ maybe my comment makes no sense here ~ but as it is ☝️  makes me think about **when** exactly the service started...

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

> await service_manager.close()  # Close the Executor, stop all Golem-related work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
await service_manager.close()  # Closes the Executor, stops all Golem-related work
```

```

## Known issues

> 1. If a service is created when all providers are busy, it should start when any provider ends the current job and becomes available, but it never starts.

Reviewer: "If a **service** is created". I think we should consider to be more careful with the terms and maybe stick to some other term ~`service-wrapper` to be clear that the **service** here does not mean the **service** on the provider...
WDYT @Wiezzel ?

Reviewer: Also we should be aligned with the yapapi docs regarding the terminology

Author: That's a good point, but also pretty hard, because in `yapapi`
* base class for service implementation is `Service`
* instances of `Service` are called `instances`

I'll think about this.

Reviewer 2: How about "If a new service is requested (i.e. an instance of `ServiceWrapper` is created)..."

We should rather use "service" to refer to an actually running service (on a provider machine). If we mean a specific Python class we should write `Service` or `ServiceWrapper` (exact class name with back quotes).

Author: https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi-service-manager/pull/6

2. If the service fails to start (for whatever reason - e.g. bug in `start()` method (TODO - check)), `ServiceWrapper` will forever stay `started`, but not working.

> 3. If the provider terminates the agreement (again, for whatever reason - e.g. because our budget run out and we don't accept invoices), this information is not propagated & again we are left with a `started` service that is not working.

Reviewer 2: Can we link `yapapi` issues here?

Author: This is my initial idea but I decided not to. This wouldn't have much use for the reader, because for each of those issues some changes on the `yapapi-service-manager` side are also required. Also I'm not 100% sure if there is 1-1 relation between those issues and yapapi issues (you never know until you try the solution).

Author: Also the last finding is that 1. might be a `yagna` issue:
https://github.com/golemfactory/yapapi/issues/427
